Q:

Can bridge-style duplicate play work for Magic and other CCGs?

As I understand bridge, you form teams with four players even though only two play at a table. The idea is that there are two identical hands. Two players in your team play North-South with one of the hands, and the other two players play East-West. This removes luck as a factor because if you are very lucky with one hand, opponents will be equally lucky on that hand. Both you and the opponents are going to win the hand, but if your team are the better players, then you should on average win the hand by a larger margin than opponents.
Will this work for Magic: the Gathering and other CCGs? Here's a sketch of how it might work:

You register for a tournament with two players and two copies of the same deck. For Magic, this would be 150 cards (60 cards + 15 sideboard per deck).
The cards are numbered and shuffled by a computer, resulting in a random sequence of 75 numbers. Then an arbiter manually stacks the decks, removing cards that are in the sideboard.
One of your team exchanges decks with the opponents. Now you have the exact same match playing out for both players on the team.
To deal with cards that shuffle the deck, each time the deck is shuffled, have the computer generate another random sequence, and remove the first card that is searched for. For example if I have four copies of Steam Vents and I search for one of them, the first copy is removed in the random sequence generated by the computer, and the rest of the deck is stacked following the sequence. The sequences are shared in both matches to make sure both decks are still stacked in the same way.
In the same way, we remove all numbers corresponding to cards not in the deck from the random sequence. This handles sideboarding even if both players don't sideboard the same way.
Absolutely no communication with teammate once the match starts, since it can reveal which cards are in opponent's hand.
This can provide some way to tiebreak draws. For example if our team's deck has a strong matchup against opponent's deck, and I win 2-0 while my teammate loses 1-2. We win the match because the net score is 3-2. Alternatively, if I win 2-0 and my teammate loses 0-2, but I win in 10 turns (summed across both games) while my teammate loses in 7 turns, then we lose the match since opponents arguably played better (not ideal since one can reasonably decline to win to play around certain cards, but it is a way to break ties).

Some obvious consequences for this could be:

Deckbuilding is less important since the effect of a good deck is washed out. One could show up with a deck of 60 Plains for example and still play an equal match against the opponent. However in this scenario you will need to pilot the opponent's deck as well as they can, and presumably they are going to be more practiced with their deck, putting you at a disadvantage.
You need to learn more than one deck, since you'll need to play with more than one deck in a tournament. However this doesn't seem fatal: it's arguable the most skillful player is the one that can play most decks at high level.
This might not work in limited, unless teams draft together and then acquires a second copy of the same deck from somewhere.

Presumably if this works it'd work best for digital tournaments since it removes a lot of manual work. On the other hand, perhaps it won't work at all because there's some fatal flaw in the setup. Can anyone see anything that might go wrong?

A:

Not sure this is an answer, but it certainly isn't a comment. Sentences in [brackets] are ignorable side-notes.
In team-of-four bridge events, including the world championships, the two tables in the match are set up so that each team puts one pair N-S at their "home" table and E-W at the other team's home table. Then the same hands (6 is a "short" match, 24-30 is a "long" one, 50-60 is a "day-long"; the finals of the world championships are 192) are played at both tables, and the scores for each pair on the team are added together.  If the sum is positive, you "won" that board; if negative, you "lost" it.  [Most of the time, the scale of the win on each board is important; but that's not relevant here].  Like Magic tournaments, there are hundreds of other tables playing (frequently) the same hands, but only the two tables for your team and your opponent matter to you; the results of all the other matches do not affect your result, just the standings.
[In pair events, the same hand is played multiple times and your results are compared to every other pair who played that hand the same direction (N-S or E-W). The more you beat, the better your score on that board.  The reason team-of-four is usually considered more prestigious is that "the field" can be really random.  Not quite an accurate comparison, but consider "swiss pairing" with "you will face 3 of the top players in your 9 rounds, and 6 others at random.  Matches are set at the beginning of the event and will not change based on results." (also, usually, you won't know the results of anyone else until the end of the event, for what that's worth)]
The difference is that in Bridge (and duplicate Scrabble, and Poker, etc.) the only variables outside of playing skill are the cards, owned by nobody and the same at each table (and the same 52 cards on each deal).  It's a matter of skill and judgement (and bidding system, which is kind of but almost totally unlike deckbuilding) as to who does better with each deal presented to them at random.
I guess in Magic, you could get two players to bring in two copies of a deck, and have them shuffled and duplicated and one given to the "away" player of the other team (let's just not do this in Legacy, at least without proxies, eh?), and play two matches, "our decks" and "opponent's decks".  You'd end up with either two wins, two losses, or a win and a loss (okay, draws, 1-0 vs 2-0 vs 2-1 wins, ... ignore them) scoring I assume 3-0-1 points as normal.
You'd bring one player that is really good at piloting the deck their team brought, and one player that is really good at piloting "anything they decided to bring", against the deck you brought.  I assume decklists are provided to the away player before the match so they at least know what cards are in their deck?
(now, if your "home" deck was a Shared Fate build...?)
Anyone who brought "60 plains" would lose their home match, and likely win their away match, drawing every round and placing well down the rankings.  And wasting everybody's time as well.
Of course, the "pattern" of the deal is static in bridge (players have access to their entire unplayed hand at all times) in a way that fails at Magic as soon as the first shuffle takes place - so that the "computer shuffle to ensure the decks start in the same order" will remain relevant on average, what - two turns?  So that doesn't lend itself to duplicate play much either (duplicate Scrabble has a fixed (for each match) tile drawing order; duplicate poker plays the same cards in the same order, but with no shuffling until the next hand).
A gauntlet, where everybody is paired against the same AI-controlled opponent, playing the same deck (but a different "same deck" each round) might have some of the duplicate style.  But "competent Magic AI" is right up there with "spherical object of constant mass and uniform density": good for theory, in practise doesn't exist.

