Q:

Vesuvan Shapeshifter token copies turned face down

What happens when Vesuvan Shapeshifter token instance is turned face down? Can you still unmorph it since the created token is a copy of Vesuvan Shapeshifter? Does it matter if the token was created from copying a Vesuvan Shapeshifter on the stack or on the battlefield?

A:

There are two main possibilities here, depending on what the token is exactly.
The first possibility is that the token is a copy of Vesuvan Shapeshifter itself. This could happen by copying a Vesuvan Shapeshifter spell on the stack, or by having a face up Vesuvan Shapeshifter that is not copying anything, and copying that. In this case, the token will work exactly like a Vesuvan Shapeshifter. You can choose to use its copy effect as it enters the battlefield, and if so it will be a copy of whatever you choose with the upkeep trigger. And if you choose to turn it face down, it will be a regular 2/2 face down creature and you will be able to turn it face up using the Morph ability.
The second possibility is that the token is a copy of whatever Vesuvan Shapeshifter is copying. In that case, it will be a copy of whatever that other creature is, with the upkeep ability. If you choose to turn it face down it will be a regular 2/2 face down creature, but it will still be a copy of that other creature, so you can only turn it face up if that other creature has Morph.
The reason it works this way is rule 707.3, and the first example is directly relevant:

The copy’s copiable values become the copied information, as modified by the copy’s status (see rule 110.5). Objects that copy the object will use the new copiable values.

Example: Vesuvan Doppelganger reads, “You may have Vesuvan Doppelganger enter the battlefield as a copy of any creature on the battlefield, except it doesn’t copy that creature’s color and it has ‘At the beginning of your upkeep, you may have this creature become a copy of target creature, except it doesn’t copy that creature’s color and it has this ability.’” A Vesuvan Doppelganger enters the battlefield as a copy of Runeclaw Bear (a 2/2 green Bear creature with no abilities). Then a Clone enters the battlefield as a copy of the Doppelganger. The Clone is a 2/2 blue Bear named Runeclaw Bear that has the Doppelganger’s upkeep-triggered ability.

