Q:

R&D's Secret Lair + Ashnod's Coupon

Ashnod's Coupon has the ability:

{T}, Sacrifice Ashnod’s Coupon: Target player gets you target drink.
Errata: You pay any costs for the drink.

Meanwhile, R&D's Secret Lair says:

Play cards as written. Ignore all errata.

Ignoring the fact that R&D's Secret Lair now has errata to make its mana producing ability still work (which is baffling to think through), how does R&D's Secret Lair interact with Ashnod's Coupon?  The issue with Ashnod's Coupon is that the Coupon's errata is printed on the card.  Thus, it is errata (so you should ignore it) but is also part of the card as written (so you should use it).  Which one happens?

A:

While R&D's Secret Lair is on the battlefield, you should not ignore the "errata" printed on Ashnod's Coupon. The Coupon's controller still pays any costs for the drink. Mark Rosewater, the official silver-bordered rules manager, published the following ruling:

kingdavidofisrael asked: Does R&D's Secret Lair remove the errata from Ashnod's Coupon, or will I still have to pay for the drink?

R&D Secret Lair contradicts itself as it asks you to play “all cards as written” and “ignore all errata”. Ashnod’s coupons errata is written on the card.
This means I can basically rule either way so I have opted to rule in favor against dumb shenanigans. (Note I’m all for regular shenanigans when playing with Un-cards.) Owner of the Ashnod’s Coupon pays for the drink.

The first linked article, authored by Mark Rosewater and published on the Wizards of the Coast official website contains the following statements:

I wear many hats at Wizards of the Coast, one of which is that of silver-bordered rules manager.
Most of the time, being silver-bordered rules manager is easy—I just get the occasional question on Twitter or my blog.
If you have a question I didn't address, you can write to me at my blog for an answer.

Therefore, Mark Rosewater's role as silver-bordered rules manager is officially sanctioned by Wizards of the Coast, and when he answers ruling questions about silver-bordered cards he is doing so in his official capacity as silver-bordered rules manager. So, his rulings on his blog have the same force of authority that the main rules manager's rulings have on the main game.

