Q:

Penalties involved in withholding knowledge of a rule violation

Player 1 won Game 1, Player 2 won Game 2, and it is at some point during Game 3 now. In Game 2, P2's Venser, Sojourner exiled a number of P1's cards and P1 doesn't remember the exiled cards when presenting his deck to P2 for Game 3, but P2 did notice but did not notify P1.
As the game progresses, P2 realizes he is losing and then calls a judge, telling him or her that P1's deck is illegal as it is under 60 cards. It should be mentioned that P2 knew the deck was illegal and withheld this information until it was opportune for him or her.
What are the specific rule violations on both players, specifically P2? Does it change if P2 did not know the deck was illegal and only just noticed it? Just curious if P2's failure to notify P1 of their illegal deck changes the penalty for P1.

A:

Player 1 would be committing a Tournament Error (Deck/Decklist Problem) under item 1 of section 3.9 of the IPG:

The deck and/or decklist contain an illegal number
   of cards for the format.

If decklists are registered, it's also a violation of item 4:

The contents of the presented deck and sideboard do not match the decklist registered.

The penalty for this is a game loss.
Player 2 would be Cheating under section 4.8, which a player commits if he or she "notices an offense committed in his or her (or a teammate's) match and does not call attention to it", if these two conditions are met:

The player must be attempting to gain advantage from his or her action.
The player must be aware that he or she is doing something illegal.

The penalty for this is disqualification.
Player 2 might also be committing a Game Play Error under section 2.6, which is defined like this:

A player allows another player in the game to commit a Game Play Error involving an effect or action that he or she does not control, and has not pointed it out immediately.

Player 1 would have to be committing a Game Play Error for this to apply. Section 2.5, which defines Game Rule Violation, "handles violations of the Comprehensive Rules that are not covered by the other Game Play Errors". A Tournament Error is not a violation of the comprehensive rules, but the comprehensive rules do say this:

100.2a In constructed play (a way of playing in which each player creates his or her own deck ahead of time), each deck must contain at least sixty cards
  Even if this means sections 2.5 and 2.6 apply, the penalties for both are less than the penalties for violations under sections 3.9 and 4.8. Also, the IPG suggests using the latter two in this case:
If a judge believes a player is intentionally not pointing out 
  other players’ illegal actions, either for his or her own advantage, or in the hope of bringing it up at a more 
  strategically advantageous time, they should consider an Unsporting Conduct — Cheating infraction.

