Q:

How to protect a card from RL damage (scratches, bends, cracks) and still play them?

I playing MTG for 17 years now. At first, I tried to protect my cards with simple thin sleeves and create/modify my deck without even considering the RL price of my cards. Now
I play EDH mostly. I really want to add Time Spiral to my Izzet Commander, but I do not want it to lose its condition ( it's already Played (PL) ). Nowadays I use protectors sleeves, mostly from Dragon Shield, but I think it may be not enough.
I know that I can't use extra layers, because it will allow distinguishing that card from the deck easily. I'm not a fan of proxy cards either.
I just want to know how others solve this kind of problem. Thanks in advance for Your answers!

A:

While I can't point to any scientific backup, my personal experience and experimentation ended in me double-sleeving all of my decks. In addition to gaining protection from all six sides rather than just five of them, you will also in the vast majority of cases end up with waterproof cards, and due to the additional rigidity, they at least feel like they wouldn't bend as easily (though of course, it is only thin layers of plastic we're talking about here, so it will never be able to withstand any serious attempt at damaging the card).
On the point of shuffling, if you're used to shuffling sleeved decks without using force, double-sleeving a deck doesn't add a whole lot of difficulty to it, even for Commander-sized decks. I could see that for players with small hands, it could potentially be more difficult, but in any case, I would recommend just trying it a few times (maybe with another person's deck), and you will quickly see whether it's for you.
While it surely is personal preference, I found that the combination of KMC Perfect Fit inner sleeves and Ultra Pro Pro-Matte outer sleeves work best for me.
As discussed in the comments, it isn't feasible to do that to your entire collection, which you might assume if what you're doing is using penny sleeves to store cards - this is merely a suggestion for cards that will actually be played, and therefore are actually exposed to wear. Generally speaking, the cost for double-sleeving a deck will be much lower than having to replace even one medium-priced card for an EDH deck. That is certainly the case for Time Spiral, which at the time of writing I would have to pay around 120 bucks for. In my opinion, it makes more sense to think about it that way, rather than paying for double sleeves to protect a lot of Islands.

