Q:

After how many iterations can I shortcut the Delina, Wild Mage / Pixie Guide combo?

I'm playing at competitive rules enforcement with Delina, Wild Mage and Pixie Guide. If I attack with Delina, Wild Mage targeting Pixie Guide with the triggered ability, I'll continue creating copies of Pixie Guide for as long as I successfully roll 15—20.
For my first roll, I'll roll two dice and ignore the lowest roll from the Grant an Advantage ability. If I succeed on that roll, I'll have an extra copy of Pixie Guide and roll again, but with three dice and ignoring the two lowest. As I continue to succeed, it will become more and more likely that I succeed:

Iterations
Dice Rolled
Approx. Prob. Success
Approx. Aggregate P(Success)

1
2
51%
51%

2
3
66%
33%

3
4
76%
25%

4
5
83%
21%

5
6
88%
19%

6
7
92%
17%

7
8
96%
16%

As I continue to succeed, the probability of success approaches 100%, but is never certain. At any point during the combo, I can choose to stop as Delina, Wild Mage was errata'd to say "you may roll again".
Normally in Magic, once you demonstrate a loop, you can normally shortcut it by saying that you'd repeat the iteration until you reach a desired result. However, at each iteration, the probability of success is not guaranteed. Since the loop is non-deterministic, it seems like I shouldn't be able to shortcut it - I'm not able to definitively say where the game state will be after each iteration.
However, Toby Elliot (a level 5 judge who writes the Magic Tournament Rules and Infraction Procedure Guide for judges) spoke about the combo on Twitter saying:

"Once you hit a certain point, your opponent probably just concedes, so the question is mostly moot.
Beyond that, once you hit a point where the odds are basically 1, announce how many you’re making and stop. But your opponent already conceded."
https://twitter.com/tobyelliott/status/1410662063228211206

It seems like at after a certain number of iterations, I am able to shortcut this combo, as long as the odds are "basically 1".
What is the number of iterations in which I can stop rolling handfuls of d20s and start shortcutting this combo to say something like "I make a number of Pixie Guides equal to twice your life total"?

A:

The statement in that tweet is not backed up by the rules. Rule 722.2a describes how taking shortcuts works:

At any point in the game, the player with priority may suggest a shortcut by describing a sequence of game choices, for all players, that may be legally taken based on the current game state and the predictable results of the sequence of choices. This sequence may be a non-repetitive series of choices, a loop that repeats a specified number of times, multiple loops, or nested loops, and may even cross multiple turns. It can’t include conditional actions, where the outcome of a game event determines the next action a player takes. The ending point of this sequence must be a place where a player has priority, though it need not be the player proposing the shortcut.

in addition, section 4.4 of the Magic Tournament Rules includes a paragraph that says

Non-deterministic loops (loops that rely on decision trees, probability, or mathematical convergence) may not be
shortcut. A player attempting to execute a nondeterministic loop must stop if at any point during the process a
previous game state (or one identical in all relevant ways) is reached again. This happens most often in loops that
involve shuffling a library.

The shortcut described only works on the condition that you get the 15-20 effect every time your roll, so it is not allowed by those rules as written. I think it's worth noting that in the current Magic Tournament Rules, none of the predefined tournament shortcuts have any conditional actions.
It's not really clear how seriously that tweet is supposed to be taken. A later tweet by the same person in the same thread, in response to one asking where the cutoff is for rounding up to 1, says

It’s the point after which your opponent has conceded, so we never actually have to get into the math.

I think you could easily read this as saying that you can never actually take the described shortcut, because it's only possible after the game is already over.
Mathematically, there is no independently defined cutoff where one number is "basically 1" and another isn't. Of course, it is possible to define a cutoff such as "whenever the probability of failing to get the desired number of consecutive successes is <1%", but until the Magic rules provide such a cutoff, there's no consistent way to resolve this.

