Q:

How do I address the power creep in my pod when I can't afford to keep up? (MTG)

About a year ago, a friend introduced me to MTG Arena. I played very often over the course of the pandemic and as a result have gotten pretty into Magic. My friend has been playing for three or four years, both tabletop and Arena and has a decent collection of cards.
Fast forward to a couple months ago and I discovered another friend of mine also plays Magic, mostly tabletop. He has been playing for over 10 years and could probably become a Magic judge if he put some time into it. He has a massive collection of cards and 15-20 constructed decks for standard, modern, and commander.
Realizing we all played, I got everyone in contact with one-another and we decided to try commander. I bought two precon commander decks just for this, watched a bunch of videos on how to play commander (I'm more familiar with standard), and even bought a couple singles to upgrade my precons. Needless to say our 10-year friend completely dominated with a couple really powerful combo decks, but it was such a good time. Our group got along great and we all had a blast despite the games being pretty lopsided. We had so much fun that we've continued doing a commander night each week, and even found a fourth friend on par with my 3-year friend skill and card collection-wise.
Over the past two months, I've invested a fair amount in MTG cards, all of them singles, and tried to put together a deck that can at least hold its own. I'm not super competitive, I just like being able to play and see my deck do a cool thing or two each game. My decks are budget in the truest sense, and I think the market value between my 4 decks is less than $200 (thank you Commander's Quarters!). I'm in a tight spot financially, so I'm maxed out on upgrades for the time being.
The problem has only started to arise in the last few weeks. Each week, everyone plays mostly the same decks, but recently everyone has been bringing some significant upgrades. For example, one person came this week with The Great Henge (~$50), Hullbreacher (~$28), and Rhystic Study (~$40) added to their deck. I am the only person in the past couple weeks that hasn't spent a lot of money on singles or packs to upgrade their decks, and I'm starting to be completely outgunned. I haven't won a game in the two months we've been playing, which doesn't bother me by itself, but its to the point where I'm out first pretty consistently. If I stay in any longer it's because I'm a non-threat not worth being dealt with, and even then any of the tiny combos I manage to produce get shut down easily.
I know it's not 100% the power of the cards that's causing this as I am pretty new, but I can't help but feel a little defeated. I'm watching a bunch of videos on how to get better at magic, watching them play and trying to learn, and trying to learn about historic cards to know what's out there for reasonable upgrades. But I know that my budget is definitely "holding me back", as I need to settle for the budget versions of particular cards that just make them less effective. For example, I run Verdant Force (~$0.80) instead of Tendershoot Dryad (~$16) as a token generator in my green token deck. Tendershoot is objectively a better card, but I could never justify spending ~$16 on a single card I may never play, let alone draw, in a game.
My question is, what can I do to address the power creep in our weekly play group when I can't afford to keep up? I really want to stay involved because I love playing with everyone and they're all really good friends, but I also don't have the most fun sitting on the sidelines for an hour or more each game. Some of the solutions I've thought of are:

Asking to play my friend's decks instead of my own
Asking to do a "budget challenge" one week, where everyone's decks must be below, say $50
Finding a new playgroup to play with in addition to my current group that is more my level

I'm not particularly fond of any of those solutions because for (1), my friend's decks are so combo-heavy that I don't know what cards are in them/how to use them. It isn't really fun to play when it's constantly being pointed out which triggers you missed, which card you could have played instead, or just topdecking through a deck to figure out what there even is. For (2), that's more on me because I'm probably too proud to admit I don't have any money to spend. I'm also afraid it could come off as me asking to play my custom budget deck against something less powerful for the sake of trying to win a game. And for (3), I do really like my friends in my current playgroup and I don't want to ditch them because "I'm not winning". I want to play with them but also find a way to not get functionally shut out because I'm not spending money on upgrades.
All my research yields questions from the opposite perspective, like, "What do I do when my decks are too powerful for my playgroup?". I don't even know what other solutions there might be, especially because I'm newer at the game.
I know there's probably not a best answer to this question, but given I can't find any other solutions and given that this is likely a common problem, I figured it would be a good question.

A:

It's time to have a Session 0 or power level discussion. It sounds like the members of your group are showing up to the Commander table with different expectations. There are a few likely scenarios, and each would benefit from a different approach. But regardless of which scenario is true, communication with your playgroup is the most important. They can't help you if you don't tell them what's wrong.
Scenario 1: You each want to play at different levels of competitiveness.
It's worth making sure that you have that power level discussion and figure out what you each are expecting from a game of commander. You mention that one of your friends has a highly tuned, technical combo deck. That player may be wanting to play very competively while you might prefer just hanging out and playing cool cards. These approaches to gameplay and deckbuilding are different and can lead to unbalanced situation like what you have described.
Ask your play group what power level they want and expect to play at. The answers might surprise you. And even if the answers are different, this doesn't mean you have to find a new group. It just means that you can request playing at a lower/slower power level for one game and then move on to the "anything goes" high power game later. Then your group will have a mix of games that should give you a better opportunity to enjoy the game.
And it might even be the case that you really will want to find another group to play a different kind of magic. You'd play with your new group for more casual games and go back to your current group for high-powered games (expecting to be destroyed).
Scenario 2: You all want to play at the highest level but have different card access.
The other members want to play powerful magic with high impact cards. You might also want this but don't have the financial means to do so. If you are all on the same page in wanting to play high-level magic then the solutions will be more about balancing budgets. There are a few approaches that you could take here:

Request budget limits for some of the games. Obviously, your friends will likely want to play their "best" decks, but it shouldn't be too hard to request a budget game to be added to the rotation.
Borrow a deck. Many players are very happy or even eager to let their friends borrow a deck. It's kinda a win-win for them since they get to set another of their creations at work.
Proxy the expensive cards. Frankly explain to your playgroup that certain cards are outside your budget and ask if they would be ok if you proxied some cards. This might be a long discussion since they might want to proxy even more expensive cards, but proxying does level the budget playing field. And if you all truly want to play high-level competitive commander (CEDH), then proxying thousand dollar dual lands and such will allow you as a group to do so.

