Q:

What are some strategies to beat Rise of the Dark Realms?

How can Rise of the Dark Realms be beaten/avoided?
Is it possible to deflect this card so that you end up consuming it?

A:

So, first off, it's important to understand why Rise of the Dark Realms isn't a very powerful card in competitive one-on-one Magic: you're paying nine mana for an effect of highly variable power (since you don't always have perfect control of what's in the graveyard, especially an opponent's). It's a very slow spell that lacks most of the characteristics of a good "finisher."

That said, not every game of Magic is the same as one-on-one Constructed. So, what happens if you run into this in Commander, multiplayer, or even a "casual" duel?

Graveyards are fragile. Since the graveyard is a great zone for both cheating on costs and card selection, there are a lot of cards printed that specifically counteract graveyard strategies. Look at how cheaply you can get graveyard hate in the form of Rest in Peace or Grafdigger's Cage, for example. It's pretty easy to sneak graveyard hate into most decks, since many effective cards replace themselves (e.g. Relic of Progenitus) or do more than just attack graveyards (e.g. Rakdos Charm, Scavenging Ooze).
Nearly every strategy relying on a single powerful spell is weak to countermagic. Your opponents like to play big, powerful spells? Counter them! There are tons and tons of counterspells that can meet your needs, ranging from super-fast counters (Force of Will, Spell Pierce) to big value-generating counters (e.g. Cryptic Command, Draining Whelk) to just plain old Negate.
There are lots of spells that just kill ALL of the creatures. Magic has a lot of "sweeper" effects that can clear the whole board with one spell. A simple Wrath of God (or Damnation, or Terminus, or Rout, or Supreme Verdict, ...) will reset the board for a very minor cost.
Someone stealing your stuff? Steal it back. Someone cast Rise of the Dark Realms? Let them pass the turn and then cast that Insurrection you've been holding! Or just tap your Homeward Path and laugh.

