Q:

At Competitive REL, do players have to follow requests from spectators?

According to Magic the Gathering Tournament Rules

If spectators believe they have observed a rules or policy violation, they are encouraged to alert a judge as soon as possible. At Regular
or Competitive Rules Enforcement Level, spectators are permitted to
ask the players to pause the match while they alert a judge.

Player A attacks with Pyreheart Wolf into Player B's creatureless battlefield, and does not acknowledge its triggered ability.  Player B casts Psionic Snoop and connives during the Declare Attackers Step, and then declares it as a blocker.  At this point, Spectator C steps in and asks the players to pause the match while they alert a judge.
Just to make sure we're all on the same page, there is nothing wrong with the game state thus far.  Player A will have missed Pyreheart Wolf's triggered ability only if they do not stop Player B from blocking with Psionic Snoop, and Player B is perfectly within their rights to proceed with this line of play until Player A does so.  Indeed, a judge would be unlikely to intervene in this situation even if play proceeded and they observed the triggered ability being missed.  However, Spectator C believes that Player B has done something illegal by blocking with a single creature, and takes action accordingly.
Player B immediately recognizes what is going on, and asks whether Player A has any further plays during the Declare Blockers Step.  Player A asks if they should wait for a judge to arrive, but Player B points out that Spectator C is not a tournament official, that therefore the players are under no obligation to follow their request to pause the match, and that they should continue play unless and until a tournament official pauses the match because time in the match is running down and a time extension would only reflect the duration of an actual judge interaction.  The real reason Player B wishes to move forward is that even an unwarranted judge intervention at this point would likely result in Player A noticing Pyreheart Wolf's triggered ability before policy considers it missed.  The players continue, and Player A does not stop Player B from blocking with Psionic Snoop.  Several game actions later, a judge arrives and pauses the match.
Obviously the judge should issue a Game Player Error - Missed Trigger infraction with no penalty to Player A for missing Pyreheart Wolf's triggered ability, unless it somehow turns into an Unsporting Conduct - Cheating infraction.  Should the judge issue any further infractions/penalties/additional remedies?  Was Player B's assertion that players are under no obligation to follow the request of a spectator to pause the match correct, so long as the players do not believe that a policy violation really is occurring (or to cover Player B's case, a policy violation which that player is obligated to acknowledge, opponent's missed triggers wouldn't count), or is a spectator request of this sort as binding to the players as the request of a tournament official?

A:

It is fairly obvious to me that in this instance the match should have been paused. The way the rule on spectators requesting pauses is written means the players must listen to the spectator and pause the match to wait for the judge. The players cannot ignore the request from the spectator - that request is allowed according to the rules.
If I was the judge in this instance, I would rewind and fix the illegal blocker, and I would seriously consider giving a warning to player B for the unsportsmanlike conduct/cheating. Performing an illegal play is one thing, but then rushing through it and ignoring a legal request to pause the match to wait for a judge is too much. Anybody can make a mistake - it's the coverup that gets you.

