Q:

Damage distribution while blocking many creatures at once

Related to: Blocking with First Strike + Deathtouch
It is said in the answers that the blocking player can choose how his Hundred Handed One deals damages to attacking creatures. 
Example: Defending creature is a 6/8 with deathtouch, first strike who can block up to 100 creatures. Assume 10 3/3 creatures are attacking. To take advantage of first strike and deathtouch, he could deal one damage to 6 different attacking creatures, kill them, and only be dealt damage by the remaining 4 attacking ones.
Background:
To a question I asked on facebook to the official Magic page, I've had a specific answer which felt correct to me.
The question was: "If I have an attacking 9/9 creature with first strike who has to be blocked by every available creature and the defending player has ten 2/2 creatures to block, will the attacking creature deal 9 to each defensive creature, or 9 amongst the defensive creatures ? If so, who chooses how the damages are dealt ?"
The answer was : "Since attacking creature has first strike, attacking player chooses to which defensive creatures the 9 total damages are dealt, but has to deal enough damages to kill one creature before applying remaning damages to another one."
In the related answer, is it really correct that the defending creature can deal only 1 damage per attacking creature, using its deathtouch to kill them? And doing so, won't it take damage from every attacking creature since it doesn't kill them before they can attack, and not only the 4 last ones? (reminder: defending creature has first strike) 

A:

510.1c A blocked creature assigns its combat damage to the creatures blocking it. If no creatures are currently blocking it (if, for
   example, they were destroyed or removed from combat), it assigns no
   combat damage. If exactly one creature is blocking it, it assigns all
   its combat damage to that creature. If two or more creatures are
   blocking it, it assigns its combat damage to those creatures according
   to the damage assignment order announced for it. This may allow the
   blocked creature to divide its combat damage. However, it can’t assign
   combat damage to a creature that’s blocking it unless, when combat
   damage assignments are complete, each creature that precedes that
   blocking creature in its order is assigned lethal damage. When
   checking for assigned lethal damage, take into account damage already
   marked on the creature and damage from other creatures that’s being
   assigned during the same combat damage step, but not any abilities or
   effects that might change the amount of damage that’s actually dealt.
   An amount of damage that’s greater than a creature’s lethal damage may
   be assigned to it.

If the defending creature has first strike and deathtouch, you can deal only 1 damage to each creature, as deathtouch make it lethal.
UPDATE: Thanks to tengfred to comment the key rule for this:

702.2c Any nonzero amount of combat damage assigned to a creature by a source with deathtouch is considered to be lethal damage for the purposes of determining if a proposed combat damage assignment is valid, regardless of that creature’s toughness.

