Q:

Is it today possible to cast spells targeting other spells placed at the bottom of the stack?

Taking up a theme I introduced "in the past" - as you can read from the question posted here: Was it possible to target spells placed at the bottom of a just-cast fast effects chain?
with this question I'm asking you instead if today the mechanism of casting magic and counter-magic can predict a game situation of the type that will be described shortly.
If two players cast a series of instants -
for example, the first of them could be the usual Lightning Bolt -
and cast many of them, by passing the priority and do not solving the stack, according to the current rules it is possible to counter something placed at the bottom of the stack, for example by casting a Counterspell targeting the first Lightning Bolt, just the one at the bottom of the stack?
Obviously, I mean if it is possible to cast this Counterspell when there are for example also other counter-magic, which intend to counteract other spells already present in the stack -
and even other fast effects,doing other things, such as a Purelace interacting with other spells,and so on... -
but with the only difference that the Counterspell I talk about in the question is just the last magic of a long series (e.g. of 10 ...or even more), and that intends to target the first magic placed in that stack, instead.
In other words: is it today possible to cast spells supposed to target other spells placed at the bottom of the stack?
(and I mean:regardless of what happens to other magic placed in the same stack)
I ask this easy question to bring out all the difference -
if there were any -
between the current regulation, and the first Magic regulation in particular (A & B series ...), too.
I really thank you for your time and patience.

A:

Yes. Counterspell simply says

Counter target spell

and 'spell' is defined in the glossary of the comprehensive rules as:

A card on the stack. Also a copy (of either a card or another spell) on the stack. See rule 112, “Spells.”

It does not matter where it is on the stack.

