Q:

Interaction between Leyline of Anticipation and Teferi, Time Raveler

With the reprint of LeyLine of Anticipation in Core Set 2020, the interaction with Teferi, Time Raveler came to mind and I couldn't figure out what is right.
If I have the Leyline and my opponent has Teferi, may I cast spells during my opponent's turn?

A:

Leyline of Anticipation won't help you; you will only be able to cast spells on your turn, in your main phases, when the stack is empty.

307.5. If a spell, ability, or effect states that a player can do something only “any time they could cast a sorcery,” it means only that the player must have priority, it must be during the main phase of their turn, and the stack must be empty. The player doesn’t need to have a sorcery they could cast. Effects that would preclude that player from casting a spell or casting a sorcery don’t affect the player’s capability to perform that action (unless the action is actually casting a spell or casting a sorcery).

So "any time they could cast a sorcery" does not mean literally "is it possible to cast a sorcery under the current game conditions". Instead, it means "could they cast a sorcery under the default rules of the game".
When you also have Leyline of Anticipation, you normally are allowed to cast a spell any time you have priority:

304.5. If text states that a player may do something “any time they could cast an instant” or “only as an instant,” it means only that the player must have priority.

However, because this conflicts with the restriction on Teferi, the restriction takes precedence:

101.2. When a rule or effect allows or directs something to happen, and another effect states that it can’t happen, the “can’t” effect takes precedence.

This is confirmed by a ruling on Teferi, Time Raveler:

If an effect allows opponents to cast spells any time they could cast an instant (for example, if your opponent also controls a Teferi, Time Raveler and activates his +1 loyalty ability), the restriction of Teferi’s first ability takes precedence over that permission.

