Q:

How should one handle miscommunication being abused?

I was observing a game the other day and saw a miscommunication that resulted in a player essentially cheating. This was at an FNM.
Here is the scenario, Andrew has a 1/1 thopter token and and a Spireside Infiltrator, Nick has 2 tapped Ovalchase Daredevils. 

Andrew confirms his move to attacks and declares thopter token and
Infiltrator as attackers. They resolve the Infiltrator's trigger
Nick says "before blockers, Subtle Strike" placing the card on the table near Andrew's thopter and
waiting for Andrew.
Andrew then says, "in response, cast Built to Smash" placing the card from his hand directly on the thopter.
Nick
then replies, "then I'll give your infiltrator -1/-1 and put a
counter on one of my Daredevils".

What ended up happening was Andrew just let this happen since he recognized that Nick had not finished casting the spell when he announced his Built to Smash. Technically speaking Andrew is the one who made an error in this manner, but it was clear to everyone watching that Nick intended to give the thopter -1/-1 and manipulated the communication to his benefit.
What should be done if behavior like this is observed? If the answer as a player is to report to a judge, then what would a judge's course of action be?

A:

Technically Andrew cannot act at step 3 because at step 2 targets and modes were not fully defined so Subtle Strike wasn't technically on the stack. 
So, since Andrew acted without priority, the steps should be rewound to Subtle Strike being cast.  It would then need to be fully cast before priority is regained by either player. 
Now, assuming that there were no modes and only a single target, I would actually say that Nick implied that he chose the thopter as his target, and since Andrew accepted the shortcut (by acting like it was on the stack and casting his spell) that Nick's choice is set. There's an old article from Wizards about "false information", but there might be something more recent. 

