Q:

Why did devotion decks dominate PT Theros?

 
Pro Tour Theros was full of successful devotion decks, with mono-black, mono-red, Gruul, and mono-blue all represented in the top 8, and the finals being decided by a blue mirror.
Conventional wisdom is that multicolor decks are optimal in competitive Magic due to their broader access to powerful cards, with the occasional exception of an ultra-fast consistent mono-color aggro or combo deck (like RDW or High Tide). And Theros Standard is a format mainly consisting of a multi-color block full of powerful gold cards like Loxodon Smiter and Sphinx's Revelation, and decent multi-color manabases based on shocklands, scrylands, and guildgates.
But the dominant decks at PT Theros all seem to be rather midrange-y de-facto-mono-color lists. Why did that happen?
What aspects of the Standard card pool and metagame made Pro Tour Theros an ideal environment for devotion-powered decks?

A:

Conventional wisdom is that multicolor decks are optimal in competitive Magic due to their broader access to powerful cards

Part of it is that devotion breaks that conventional wisdom, because it actively rewards you for playing lots of cards with identically colored mana symbols. The power level of the main devotion engines — Master of Waves, Gray Merchant of Asphodel, and Fanatic of Mogis — is high enough (when you have significant devotion) that it overwhelms the benefit of running multiple colors. For example, if you already have 5 devotion to blue, then Master of Waves gives you 6 2/1 creatures for four mana. Nothing in RTR block is nearly that good, even when you can put multiple colors together.
Of course, the high potential power level of e.g. Master of Waves wouldn't matter if you had to run otherwise terrible cards to enable it. But the cards that have lots of colored mana in their mana costs, like Nightveil Specter and Boros Reckoner, tend to be reasonably powerful anyway, which is related to the fact that they're normally so hard to cast. Devotion was just the extra benefit these cards needed to elevate them from fringe playables to core cards of the format.

