Q:

Is there a card that lets you put a card from outside of the game into play?

I played a commander game a while ago where one of my 5 opponents cast a card that let him grab a card that was outside of the game (not even in exile) and put it either in his hand or on the battlefield.
It was a while back so I am slightly fuzzy in terms of the context in which this was played.
I would like to know whether, firstly this card exists that allows you to acquire a card not in your deck and/or in any other zone in the game and place it either in your hand or on the battlefield?
I was in disbelief at this play but everyone around me in the game had more experience than me so I assumed it was legit.
The second thing I'd like to know is that if this card does exist (or something similar) what is its name(s)?
I figured it may be in one of the "unsets" like Unglued or Unhinged or any of the other funky experimental sets Wizards decided to curve-ball into existence... 

A:

This is the "Wish" card series that were released in the Judgment extension.
For example: Burning Wish. It allows one for example in a tournament to get a card from the sideboard on the first game.
The 5 original wishes are:

Cunning Wish
Burning Wish
Death Wish
Living Wish
Golden Wish

Since then, other similar cards where released. This query should give most of them: o:"own from outside the game". You'll notice Ring of Ma'rûf in the results as well; the wishes are way more common.
So this is nothing "funky" like the fun cards in Unglued or Unhinged, and has been tournament-legal (and still is in some formats).
However these cards don't work by default in Commander/EDH except with prior agreement, so it sounds like your scenario wasn't how things should happen. See Commander rule 13:

Abilities which refer to other cards owned outside the game (Wishes, Spawnsire, Research, Ring of Ma'ruf) do not function in Commander without prior agreement on their scope from the playgroup.

This means these cards shouldn't come out as a surprise, because beforehand you have to discuss and agree how they even work.

