Q:

Prophet of Kruphix: Can I flash Bestow?

If I have Prophet of Kruphix out (which gives all my creatures flash), can I use the bestow ability of my enchantment creatures during my opponents turn? For example, can I bestow Thassa's Emissary on one of my creatures, during my opponents turn?
Bestow text for reference:

If you cast this card for its bestow cost, it's an Aura spell with
enchant creature. It becomes a creature again if it's not attached to
a creature.

Similarly, if I do not have enough devotion for Thassa, God of the Sea to be a creature, can I use flash to cast her during my opponents turn?
Thassa's devotion related text, for reference:

As long as your devotion to blue is less than five, Thassa isn't a
creature. (Each Blue in the mana costs of permanents you control
counts toward your devotion to blue.)

A:

Yes, you can, for both. Prophet of Kruphix allows you to cast "Creature Cards" as though they had flash. Thassa's Emissary IS a Creature Card. It's NOT a "Creature", as a "Creature" is a permanent on the battlefield, which it isn't while it's in your hand or on the stack. But it IS a "Creature Card", and that's all that matters.
See rules for Bestow, noting that Bestow ability that allows you to cast it as an Aura is a static ability of the card itself, not of a creature or aura permanent.

702.102. Bestow

702.102a Bestow represents two static abilities, one that functions while the card with bestow is on the stack and another that functions
    both while it's on the stack and while it's on the battlefield.
    "Bestow [cost]" means "You may cast this card by paying [cost] rather
    than its mana cost." and "If you chose to pay this spell's bestow
    cost, it becomes an Aura enchantment and gains enchant creature. These
    effects last until one of two things happens: this spell has an
    illegal target as it resolves or the permanent this spell becomes,
    becomes unattached." Paying a card's bestow cost follows the rules for
    paying alternative costs in rules 601.2b and 601.2e–g.

