Q:

How many is "A bunch"?

If someone has assembled the Deceiver Exarch/Splinter Twin combo, and they say "make a bunch of dudes and kill you", without telling me the number, what happens?
The problem with asking him is that this is a situation where the player is committing a minor rules violation — he's not proposing a proper shortcut — and he gets rewarded for doing that by getting free information: he knows that I'm interested in the number of Deceiver Exarchs that he's making
Is there a way to handle this situation without rewarding my opponent with free information?

A:

There's not a lot you can do to screw over a player for being vague. Because the rules-provided answer is basically "Force them to be less vague."
Really what players are doing when they say they make "a bunch" of tokens is telling their opponent "Look, I have my combo. Gonna scoop now?" If you do anything other than scoop, of course they're gonna play more tightly — since now they're actually playing it out.
Get in the habit of always asking for clarification. Then you're not giving away any information about your own plan.
About the most "underhanded" things you can legitimately do are:

Ask really casually and hope they say something a little more definite.

"So, that's what, a million damage heading my way?"
"Yup."
"After blockers, I'll Rakdos Charm."

I think most competitive players would call a judge on you and you'd end up in an annoying argument about who exactly said what when. You might also develop a reputation for pettiness of poor sportsmanship.

Ask someone to slow it down and show you the combo steps. As they do so, they'll probably announce a specific number as part of a shortcut. (This works better with Rakdos Charm than Batwing Brume, because you can do it while they execute the combo instead of having to wait for them to declare attackers.) This is a trick that may actually get you some wins against the more complex combo decks, when they just straight-up botch their combo.

