Q:

Is Dimir's milling strategy viable in Gatecrash sealed deck? If not, what can they do instead?

The situation is similar to wesdfgfgd's question MTG Gatecrash Simic Strategies for a Prerelease event
I'm a habitual Dimir player.  In Gatecrash, many Dimir cards are strongly themed towards their millstone strategy or generating card advantage.  
In sealed deck, and to a large extent in draft, millstone wins seem hard to pull off.  Many of the capstone cards for this approach are rare, so I probably won't have them.  (Milling is hard in general, and the format makes this kind of one-method-to-win focus inherently unreliable.  To win on turn ten, I'd have to average milling 2.3 cards per turn - while defending myself.)  
While many Dimir creatures are rather nice for reasons of evasion or card advantage, I'll hardly win with a direct creature approach against Boros or Gruul.
Looking through the non-rare spells with Cipher, most are two or 4-drops, with a few areas of effect.  Most either generate card advantage (Last Thoughts) or fend for time (Hands of Binding, Voidwalk).  With 18 uncommons I can hardly count on getting enough Call of the Nightwing to token flood the ciphers through, and that's the most aggressive card.  (I don't feel Shadow Slice compares particularly well to a 5-drop creature in a sealed deck format.)
So, can the basic milling approach be made to work?  And if not, where should I be going for the win?  (And which splash colours would help me achieve it?  That decision depends on my draws, obviously, but of the obvious white-splash Orzhov or green-splash Simic, what would you recommend?)
(EDIT: This question originally referred to the Gatecrash prerelease, but has been edited to be less time-dependant.  The focus is primarily on sealed, but most answers are probably just as relevant to draft format; answers discussing the differences are particularly welcome.)

A:

Well, it's up to you to figure it out based on your card pool, really.
However, some numbers are handy:

At the start of the game, your opponent will have at least 33 cards in his or her deck (more if there are mulligans).
Each instance of the "mill until you hit a land card" ability will mill something like 2.5 cards on average. That's pretty weak.

What Dimir does have going for it is that a lot of the milling in this set is attached to other stuff -- the common Balustrade Spy is a feeble mill card but also gives you a 2/3 flyer for a reasonable cost, for instance. And you do have access to some repeatable milling, like the prerelease promo Consuming Aberration and lower-rarity carsd like Paranoid Delusions, Sage's Row Denizen, Undercity Informer, and Duskmantle Guildmage.
I don't think Gatecrash's milling is nearly as explosive as similar decks in Dark Ascension Limited. And Dimir creatures are by far the weakest of all the guilds; if you want to actually play a solid defense, you're likely to need Orzhov or Simic to help you stabilize (Dimir can work well with both those guilds because it offers them the missing component they need to be a control deck -- lots more removal for Simic, countermagic for Orzhov). If I'm mixing guilds like this, though, I'd much rather be trying to win off of cipher+extort than straight-up milling.
Mostly I just don't think the power cards are there in any capacity. It feels like black in AVR -- you can get a reasonable deck going in draft if no one else is in your colors, but the card pool's pretty thin overall. Magic pro Paulo Vitor Damo da Rosa had this to say about Dimir in Sealed, for instance:

This means Dimir has a bad promo, a bad Keyrune, an OK Guildmage, an
OK Charm, horrible rares, horrible uncommons, and horrible commons! To
top it all, pretty much all of the guild pack’s slots are filled with
cipher cards, which are not very useful—you want mill cards and
defensive cards, but those won’t be found in that pack. Unless I
underrate cipher very much, I’d stay away from Dimir, because it
doesn’t look like you’ll beat anything but the Orzhov decks.
In the end, if you want to play the Dimir colors, I think the best
alternative is an esper deck. You get the milling from Dimir and the
defense from Orzhov. If this is your plan, then I think the Orzhov
pack actually offers better cards for you—you lose the Dimir promo,
which is better, but instead of useless cipher cards you get 1/4
defenders and regenerating Thrulls.

