Q:

Since the active player controls planes in the Planechase variant, does protection from a player protect a creature from planes too?

Alice and Bob play a game of Planechase. Bob controls a True-Name Nemesis and has chosen Alice as it entered the battlefield; the current plane is Mount Keralia with one pressure counter on it.
It is Alice's turn and she rolls the planer die, rolling the Planswalker symbol. When she planswalks Mount Keralia's first triggered ability triggers.
If I understand rule 901.6 correctly Alice controls Mount Keralia and True-Name Nemesis' protection ability will prevent the damage it would deal to it.
Is that correct?

A:

This is correct. Because it is Alice's turn, she controls Mount Keralia:

901.6 The owner of a plane or phenomenon card is the player who started the game with it in their planar deck. The controller of a face-up plane or phenomenon card is the player designated as the planar controller. Normally, the planar controller is whoever the active player is.

And protection from [player] will prevent damage from objects that the player controls:

702.16k “Protection from [a player]” is a variant of the protection ability. A permanent or player with protection from a specific player has protection from each object that player controls and protection from each object that player owns not controlled by another player, regardless of that object’s characteristic values. Such a permanent or player can’t be targeted by spells or abilities the specified player controls and can’t be enchanted by Auras that player controls. Such a permanent can’t be equipped by Equipment that player controls, fortified by Fortifications that player controls, or blocked by creatures that player controls. All damage that would be dealt to such a permanent or player by sources controlled by the specified player or owned by that player but not controlled by another player is prevented.

Finally, a Plane does count as an "object":

Planes

311.1. Plane is a card type seen only on nontraditional Magic cards. Only the Planechase casual variant uses plane cards. See rule 901, “Planechase.”

Objects
109.1. An object is an ability on the stack, a card, a copy of a card, a token, a spell, a permanent, or an emblem.

