Q:

Can a well-timed Twisted Image kill a player using Tree of Redemption?

What happens if my opponent activates Tree of Redemption and I cast Twisted Image with the life-exchange ability on the stack?
Looking at the comp rules, these seem most relevant:

701.8a A spell or ability may instruct players to exchange something (for example, life totals or    control of two permanents) as part of
  its resolution. When such a spell or ability resolves, if the
  entire exchange can’t be completed, no part of the exchange occurs.
Example: If a spell attempts to exchange control of two target creatures but one of those
             creatures is destroyed before the spell resolves, the spell does nothing to the other
             creature.
112.7a Once activated or triggered, an ability exists on the stack independently of its source.    Destruction or removal of the source
  after that time won’t affect the ability. Note that some    abilities
  cause a source to do something (for example, “Prodigal Sorcerer deals
  1 damage to    target creature or player”) rather than the ability
  doing anything directly. In these cases, any    activated or triggered
  ability that references information about the source because the
  effect    needs to be divided checks that information when the ability
  is put onto the stack. Otherwise, it    will check that information
  when it resolves. In both instances, if the source is no longer in the
  zone it’s expected to be in at that time, its last known information
  is used. The source can still    perform the action even though it no
  longer exists.

Is the entire exchange ability countered because the Tree is dead by the time it resolves? Or do we use the "last known state" (toughness 0), thereby killing its controller?

A:

From the Oracle:

9/22/2011 If Tree of Redemption isn't on the battlefield when the
  ability resolves, the exchange can't happen and the ability will have
  no effect.

Which is consistent with the golden rule that if one rule says a thing can happen and another says it can't, can't wins.

