Q:

How can I improve my Chandra, Acolyte of Flame plus Cavalcade of Calamity deck?

Currently I have a mono-red deck built around the synergy of Chandra, Acolyte of Flame and Cavalcade of Calamity. I'd like to improve the deck but I don't have the deck building chops. Most of the good ideas in the deck were stolen from other versions of the deck that beat me up. The current deck list is:

4 Scorch Spitter
2 Shock
4 Cavalcade of Calamity
2 Chandra's Pyrohelix
1 Chandra's Regulator
1 Scorching Dragonfire
4 Chandra, Acolyte of Flame
4 Chandra's Spitfire
1 Leyline of Combustion
4 Scampering Scorcher
4 Torbran, Thane of Red Fell
2 Chandra's Flame Wave
1 Chandra, Awakened Inferno
1 Chandra, Flame's Fury
1 Embercleave
4 Dwarven Mine
20 Mountain

The break-out's shown in MTG Arena are:

Some things I've considered include:

Replacing Chandra, Awakened Inferno and/or Chandra, Flame's Fury with Jaya, Venerated Firemage. The logic being she'd be quicker to get out and be a low level Torbran replacement and/or buff. My concern is I don't see her being ran on Arena. Plus I like the board clearing ability of Chandra, Awakened Inferno and Chandra's Flame Wave. I'm hesitant to keep Chandra's Flame Wave while dropping Chandra, Flame's Fury because I feel like I'm losing value.
Replacing Scampering Scorcher with a goblin alternative like Legion Warboss, Krenko, Tin Street Kingpin, or Goblin Gathering. I like that these other options are cheaper but they are vulnerable to Chandra, Awakened Inferno's board wipe since they aren't elementals. On the other hand that can be a benefit when someone declares a protection from a type....
Replacing Leyline of Combustion with something else. Most times it is kind of a dead draw unless I can put it out for free in my opening hand.
Trying to work in some Grim Initiates but I don't know what I'd drop to include them.
Adding Runaway Steam-Kin to the deck, but once again I don't know what I'd drop to include it. Maybe Leyline of Combustion??

How do you think I could improve the deck? The best answers will include details as to why they're making the suggestions they're making so I can improve my deck building skills.

A:

If you're playing with Cavalcade of Calamity you must go aggro - full out aggro. It's very weak if you're not being aggressive. Consider: if it's turn 6 and you're playing cards like Chandra, Awakened Inferno, Cavalcade is going to be sitting there doing nothing. Cavalcade is only useful if you're attacking, and by extension that means you must play aggressive creatures. Your curve needs to start at 1 mana, and in turn that means you can't run many expensive cards.
You should remove these:

Chandra's Pyrohelix - this card is inferior, you have better removal options (Slaying Fire and Bonecrusher Giant especially)
Chandra's Regulator - the expensive Chandras aren't aggressive enough, so this card isn't worth it.
Scorching Dragonfire - again, you have better removal options.
Leyline of Combustion - not enough impact. If you could reliably start with it on the battlefield, maaaaybe, but if you can't, it's just too expensive to do too little.
Scampering Scorcher - you can't run many expensive cards. With lots of 1-drops, you don't have the power level to compete in the mid-game; you need to run fewer lands and try to overrun the opponent. You can only run so many 4-drops and Torbran is too good to give up.
All cards >4 mana - per above.
Dwarven Mine - this card isn't bad, but it's not appropriate for a beatdown deck. It only becomes better than a basic Mountain at 4+ mana, which you don't want to get to all that often. Meanwhile you will get games where it enters the battlefield tapped and those are crippling to an aggressive strategy. You are better off running Castle Embereth, not too many copies though because you'll get all-Castle hands and then it becomes clunky.

Cards you should run:

Fervent Champion - strong one-mana card.
Light up the Stage - it's how you keep up in cards.
Skewer the Critics - it's 3 damage for one mana if you can trigger Spectacle, which you'll often be able to (although not necessarily pre-combat).
Experimental Frenzy - usually reserved for post-board games, this is the best source of card advantage you have.
Runaway Steam-Kin - too powerful to not run. It can reach 4/4 for a 2-mana creature which is huge, plus the combo with Experimental Frenzy is very strong.
Tibalt, Rakish Instigator - stops opposing lifegain, generates 1/1s which trigger Cavalcade.
Slaying Fire and Bonecrusher Giant - per above, these are your removal spells that can also be used against the opponent. Being able to burn opponent is important; at some point opponent will likely stabilize the board and your win condition becomes burning them.

Some example lists:

SCG Standard IQ Spring Lake, 6th Place
Mythic Championship V, 5-2 (warning: this list was tuned to beat Bant Golos. Since Field of the Dead is now banned, this list is not optimal anymore.)
Deck by MPL member Martin Juza, with guide

