Q:

Which is the authoritative ban list: MTGCommander.net or Gatherer?

I built me a Commander deck for Athreos, God of Passage.  I did some searching for ways to get  card draw (because I was running out of cards) and one of the card I looked at was Yawgmoth's Bargain.
I am always careful to check to make sure that the card I want to play is legal.  So I loaded the "Sets and Legality" tab for Yawgmoth's Bargain.  Since it is listed as legal for Commander, I bought the card and have been happily playing it in my Commander games.
Well, tonight I was browsing around and got to the Commander banned list (MtgCommander and Wizards).  To my surprise I saw Yawgmoth's Bargain on the banned list.
Frustrated that I had missed this I went back to the "Sets and Legality" page on Gatherer to double check.  As you can guess, the card is listed as "Legal" for Commander.
So, which one wins?  A ban list on a web page, or the Gatherer card database?
NOTE: I am happy to get opinions on this.  But what I really want is a rule to says which one is the authoritative source of legality.  (Without a rule, we are all just giving opinions right?)

A:

MTGCommander.net is the authoritative reference for all things commander.
Says who?
First, a little history.
According to this article, Adam Staley created the format. He shared it with Sheldon Menery, a retired Level 5 Judge, who popularized the format by inviting judges at tournaments to play. Over the next few years, the format spread from judges to the common player.
Gavin Duggan, who is a member of the Commander Rules committee along with Sheldon Menery, is also the creator of MTGCommander.net. When the rules committee bans a card, it shows up there first.
Wizards of the Coast catches on
But they wanted to avoid using the trademarked "Highlander" in the name (which could lead to a lawsuit), and so Wizards changed the name to "Commander". Wizards maintains the Gatherer and their own banned list for MTGO. Their list links to MTGCommander in the opening paragraph!

We like rules
If that wasn't convincing enough, there is actually a rule that acknowledges MTGCommander as the source of "additional resources" (emphasis mine):

903.1. In the Commander variant, each deck is led by a legendary creature designated as that deck’s commander. The Commander variant was created and popularized by fans; an independent rules committee maintains additional resources at MTGCommander.net. The Commander variant uses all the normal rules for a Magic game, with the following additions.

