Q:

How are you supposed to fight a discard deck?

I get this is kind of a noob question, so bear with me. My friend plays a legacy discard deck, and he'll usually dark ritual or something to make me discard 3-5 cards in the first 3 turns, and by turn 5-6 my hand is empty. (More specifically he's running Griselbrand reanimator, so his hand is rarely empty.)
While this might not work against cheap aggro (I regularly win with RDW), I don't see how any other deck can really handle this. When he has a full hand and I'm limited to 1 new card per turn, which I have to either cast or lose thanks to specters, how am I supposed to ever catch up?
Yet at the same time I know discard isn't like auto-tournie-win, so I'm just not sure how people deal with it.

To give some info about my specific situation and the key cards I use, I am playing:

Legacy RDW with key cards being Stonewright / Lightning Mauler / Rakdos Cackler / Hellrider / Ash Zealot / Pyreheart Wolf / Ball Lightning / Trumpet Blast / Lightning Bolt / Pillar of Flame.

Legacy combo elves (Elfdrazi) with Priest of Titania / Rofellos, Llanowar Emissary / Ezuri, Renegade Leader / Llanowar Elves / Emrakul, the Aeons Torn / Seeker of Skybreak / Elvish Piper / Fierce Empath / Concordant Crossroads / a bunch of tutors / Vitalize.

My friend is primarily using Griselbrand Reanimator, using Griselbrand / Buried Alive / Animate Dead / Zombify / Dark Ritual / Cabal Ritual / Dark Petition / a bunch of tutors / Crypt Ghast and the death knell being Mind Twist (discard my whole hand) and Infest (kills all creatures in both my decks). On paper he wins using Sorin's Vengeance, Debt to the Deathless, Consume Spirit, and Exsanguinate, but Mind Twist is really what does it.

A:

Against decks that rely on 3-8 precision cards to disrupt you but mostly consist of another strategy, I recommend these resources:

B&CG: How can I play around targeted discard? — general advice
Reid Duke: Thoughtseize You — to understand what your opponent is
doing

Against decks that are practically wall-to-wall discard, here are some techniques that may help:
Get "under" them
Play out your hand faster than they can rip it apart. This is what your red aggro deck is doing.
Rely on strong topdecks
One of the biggest weaknesses of discard decks: most discard cards are sorcery speed. Even once you're "hellbent," you'll usually be able to draw your card and play it on your turn. So you'll still be making land drops and you'll be able to cast most of the permanents and removal spells in your deck.
The worst thing about playing a dedicated discard deck is that half the cards in your deck just do nothing once your opponent is topdecking. So, focus your resources on taking out the cards of their that still have value — finishers, combo pieces, and engines of advantage.
Play out of your graveyard
With some exceptions, discard typically puts stuff in your graveyard. Flashback spells, reanimation effects, self-reanimators (like Gravecrawler).
Incidental Hosers
Some staple creatures are also, incidentally, discard hosers — for example, Wilt-Leaf Liege, Loxodon Smiter, and Obstinate Baloth.
Precision tools
This is a quality sideboard card:

You can drop it on turn zero, for free. It blocks all of Thoughtseize, Cabal Therapy, Inquisition of Kozilek, Duress, and Hymn to Tourach. It's also a strong card against burn decks, many combo decks (e.g. Tendrils).

