Q:

What cards work with Esix, Fractal Bloom?

There are a few different forms of templating that cards that generate multiple tokens use and I'm not sure how each works with Esix, Fractal Bloom.

Generate n tokens. Examples: Saproling Migration, Stolen by the Fae, Nest Invader. Surely all of these effects work to create n copies of a permanent where n is the how many tokens they create.
Generate n tokens then generate m tokens (same line of text). Examples: Somberwald Beastmaster, Specimen Collector Tempt with Reflections. The question here is; are the tokens that are created separate instances of creating a token as far as Esix is concerned, or do I get to copy for each of these tokens?
Generate n tokens then generate m tokens (different lines of text). Example: Sylvan Offering. I'm not sure if this would be any different than #2 because it's on separate lines, so I figured I should check.
Generate n tokens (as separate activations of the same ability). Examples: Blaze Commando, Poppet Stitcher. Surely these only allow you to make copies only on their first activation, even if multiple activations are on the stack at once.

There might be more ways to generate tokens that I haven't seen yet, but I think this covers most of it. I'm pretty confident about #1 and #4, but I'm not so sure about #2 and #3. The crux of the problem is what counts as a "time", so a link to the rules that govern what counts as a "time" for Esix (and other cards worded this way) would be helpful.

A:

To an extent, you have to use your own judgment when evaluating what counts as the same or separate events. The most relevant rule is rule 700.1:

Anything that happens in a game is an event. Multiple events may take place during the resolution of a spell or ability. The text of triggered abilities and replacement effects defines the event they’re looking for. One “happening” may be treated as a single event by one ability and as multiple events by another.

For an event like "you would create one or more tokens" as on Esix, the general rule is that a single instruction in a single sentence is one event, and multiple instructions are separate events. Line breaks within a spell don't matter here. They can make cards easier to read but they have no mechanical effect.
So, based on that rule, the cards you listed that create tokens in a single event are:

Saproling Migration
Stolen by the Fae
Nest Intruder (which only creates one token anyway)
Somberwald Beastmaster
Specimen Collector

The others have multiple separate events that create tokens. In particular, if an activated or triggered ability creates a token, then even if multiple instances of that ability can be on the stack at the same time, they resolve as entirely separate events.
One relevant ruling on Tempt with Reflections says

After each opponent has decided, the effect happens simultaneously for each one who accepted the offer. Then, the effect happens again for you a number of times equal to the number of opponents who accepted.

