Q:

Why can't I use Commander cards/decks in Standard/Modern?

So my friend has recently starting playing MTG and has bought some of the LOTR set.
I, who has also never played before, was looking around for a set I like and came across the D&D Baulder's Gate one. I purchased the below:
https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B09VBFFHK9?psc=1&ref=ppx_yo2ov_dt_b_product_details
However - I now realise that Commander cards are not legal in Standard or Modern...
My question is - is this illegality because of balancing issues, or some other reason? I'll happily play the cards against my friend if it's a fair game, but wouldn't be happy to if it's not balanced.
Also, I noticed some of the wording on the cards is purposeful such that it can apply to multiple players (the Commander format) but I'm happy to play these against only one opponent, obviously if they're still good.
Thanks,!

A:

Generally it's not because of balance, and a lot of the cards in preconstructed commander decks were originally legal in standard at one point, often the standard set that went along with the decks (Like the 4 Lord of the Rings commander decks have many cards from the base Lord of the Rings set). There are a few issues with the cards that were specifically designed for commander that make them unplayable in one on one 60 card formats however:

They need a commander - Cards like command tower or Path of Ancestry don't function at all if you don't have a commander, and some other cards like Deflecting Swat or Fierce Guardianship work but just become worse versions of other cards because part of their text doesn't work.
They need multiple opponents - Most of these cards will still work, but won't do as much as they were intended to. Gandalf, Westward Voyager, for example, is a lot better when playing with three opponents than it is one-on-one, and Morphic Pool is pretty much a much more expensive Submerged Boneyard in one-on-one.|

The big reason for standard specifically that you can't use cards from commander is standard has a limited number of the most recent regular sets (currently 5-8 soon to be 9-12) allowed, this is one of the way they try to manage power creep in Magic: the Gathering, by rotating sets out and not allowing supplemental sets to be played in standard, they don't need to constantly print more and more powerful cards to beat existing deck power levels.

Also worth noting, the Lord of the Rings set is not legal in standard either, they are legal only in non-rotating formats currently like Modern and Legacy and Commander.

