Q:

Why is Magic Online saying I have off color cards even though I don’t?

I’m trying to make a Commander deck using Rona, Sheoldred's Faithful as my Commander but Magic Online won’t let me use it because I have off color cards.
I’ve looked through the deck list 5 times and haven’t found a single card that isn’t blue or black. I even tried taking out my colorless land cards but it doesn’t change anything. I looked at the thing that tells you the number of different mana colors mentioned in the deck and there were only black and blue.
The deck list is as follows:

Acquisition Octopus
Alchemist's Retrieval
Assassin's Ink
Baneblade Scoundrel
Battlefield Butcher
Behold the Unspeakable
Braids's Frightful Return
Brokers Hideout
Combat Research
Component Collector
Corrupt
Corrupt Court Official
Covetous Castaway
Crawl From the Cellar
Crystal Grotto
Deal Gone Bad
Delver of Secrets
Desperate Farmer
Dig up the Body
Dockside Chef
Drownyard Amalgam
Faerie Vandal
Field of Ruin
Firmament Sage
Founding the Third Path
Gibbering Barricade
Gixian Infiltrator
Gluttonous Guest
Gnawing Vermin
Gruesome Realization
Heirloom Mirror
Illicit Shipment
Impulse
Incriminate
Keeper of the Cadence
Knight of Dusk's Shadow
Mindleech Ghoul
Moment of Defiance
Morbid Opportunist
Mysterious Tome
Negate
Obscura Storefront
Parasitic Grasp
Phyrexian Espionage
Phyrexian Vivisector
Ragged Recluse
Restless Bloodseeker
Riveteers Overlook
Rona's Vortex
Rooftop Nuisance
Scattered Thoughts
Security Bypass
Shore Up
Siege Zombie
Tamiyo's Compleation
Thran Vigil
Third Path Savant
Thraxodemon
Tolarian Terror
Tribute to Urborg
Unblinking Observer
Uncharted Haven
Urborg Repossession
Vengeful Strangler
Virus Beetle
Voda Sea Scavenger
Volshe Tideturner
Witness the Future

What reasons could there be for Magic Online rejecting my deck?

A:

Urborg Repossession violates your deck's color identity.
When making a commander deck, you may not include any cards that violate your commander's color identity. Color identity looks not only for the colors of cards in your deck, but also at any mana symbols that appear anywhere on those cards.

903.4. The Commander variant uses color identity to determine what cards can be in a deck with a certain commander. The color identity of a card is the color or colors of any mana symbols in that card’s mana cost or rules text, plus any colors defined by its characteristic-defining abilities (see rule 604.3) or color indicator (see rule 204).

In your particular case, Rona, Sheoldred’s Faithful has a blue and black color identity, so you may not include any cards whose colors include white, red, or green, or which have a white, red, or green mana symbol anywhere in it. Urborg Repossession has a black and green color identity, making it ineligible for your deck, because it contains the text:

Kicker {G} (You may pay an additional {G} as you cast this spell.)

