Q:

MTG Cards that interact with each other by name

So I know that Bogbrew Witch, Festering Newt and Bubbling Cauldron all name each other in their rules text and I was wondering if there are any other cards that do this as well. How can I find more cards like that? (A list would certainly be useful, but how to find them would be even more useful.)

A:

Creating a search query that returns all cards that reference other cards, without having false positives or false negatives is difficult, but I will show the kinds of things to search for to find some of them. All of these queries are using MagicCards.info

o:named

This is the most basic one, it searches for all cards with "named" in their card text. This generates a lot of false positives, mostly cards that refer to themselves like Accumulated Knowledge, cards that have someone name a card like Booby Trap, or ones that create tokens with names like Boris Devilboon.
This part is always required, and will be left out of future queries for brevity.

-o:~

This removes any cards that have their own name in the text box. This creates some false negatives from things like Diligent Farmhand, but also removes a large number of false positives (It removes about 100 cards from the results).

-o:"name a card"

This removes any cards that have the text "name a card" in the text box. I don't think this creates any false negatives, but doesn't remove that many cards from the result (less than 20).

-o:"token named"

This removes any cards that have the text "token named" in their text box. Note that this only removes things with vanilla tokens (ie ones with no abilities), ones that have abilities like Wirefly Hive will still show up. It also removes the Helm of Kaldra since it produces a Kaldra token.
Combining all of these into (with -is:silver-bordered to remove Un-cards)

o:named  -o:~ -o:"name a card" -o:"names a card" -o:"token named" -is:silver-bordered

We get a list of 18 cards, 3 are false positives, and several cards like the Helm of Kaldra that don't show up, but it gives you a starting place to work from.

The Unspeakable

Sift Through Sands
Peer Through Depths
Reach Through Mists
The Unspeakable

Kaldra

Helm of Kaldra
Shield of Kaldra
Sword of Kaldra

Nissa

Nissa Revane
Nissa's Chosen

Empire Artifacts

Crown of Empires
Scepter of Empires
Throne of Empires

Spiders

Arachnus Spinner
Arachnus Web

Scion of Darkness

Dark Supplicant
Scion of Darkness

Spirit of Night

Urborg Panther
Feral Shadow
Breathstealer
Spirit of the Night

Viashivan Dragon

Kyscu Drake
Spitting Drake
Viashivan Dragon

Alternate Timeline Weapon-makers

Renowned Weaponsmith
Heart-Piercer Bow
Vial of Dragonfire

Bant Angel

Angels' Herald
Empyrial Archangel

Esper Sphinx

Sphinx's Herald
Sphinx Sovereign

Grixis Demon

Demon's Herald
Prince of Thralls

Jund Dragon

Dragon's Herald
Hellkite Overlord

Naya Beast

Behemoth's Herald
Godsire

Bursts

Muscle Burst
Diligent Farmhand
Flame Burst
Pardic Firecat

