Q:

To whom does Spellshock apply?

Spellshock is an enchantment that says:

Whenever a player casts a spell, Spellshock deals 2 damage to that player.

If I play this, do I then have to pay two life for every spell I cast? Does it not apply only to other players?

A:

There are a few ways that could be written which would change where it applies. It could have been written, in order from most narrow to widest:

Whenever you cast a spell, Spellshock deals 2 damage to you.

This applies to you, and only you. There aren't many cards that work this way anymore, downsides to cards have gotten more rare over time, currently the most recent example I can think of is Treacherous Blessing.

Whenever an opponent casts a spell, Spellshock deals 2 damage to that player.

This way of wording would mean it applies to each player who is your opponent - usually this is every other player, but some formats like two headed giant or archenemy can have players who are allies, it wouldn't apply to them. This kind of wording is on cards like Silverquill Silencer.

Whenever another player casts a spell, Spellshock deals 2 damage to that player.

This way of wording would mean it applies to everyone except you (as the controller of Spellshock). Unlike the previous wording this one does apply to allies in formats where those exist. No card has really been worded quite like this, but similar effects are on cards like Syphon Soul and Zur's Weirding.

Whenever a player casts a spell, Spellshock deals 2 damage to that player.

This is the wording that the spell has, and it applies to everyone in the game, your opponents, your allies (if any) and yourself.
Cards like Spellshock tend to be played in decks that don't intend to cast many spells - decks that use ways to play cards other than casting them, like Sneak Attack, Quicksilver Amulet and Elvish Piper do with creatures, or in decks where you can prevent the life loss with cards like Platinum Emperion or the Nine Lives and Solemnity combo, offset the loss with enough life gain, or prevent yourself from losing for having 0 life with cards like Platinum Angel.

