Q:

What does "float mana" typically mean?

Normally, whenever I take an action that involves paying for an effect that is any more complicated than tapping lands, I declare that I'm floating mana. For instance:

When I tap Priest of Titania with 3 other elves on the battlefield (for a total mana cost of 4), than I will typically say "I float 4 mana" before I make any plays and use this mana.
Even if I'm using Llanowar Elves to pay for a 1-drop, I declare how I'm floating mana.

One time, I was accused of cheating because of this habit. I tapped my Llanowar Elves and said "I float 1 to play Quirion Ranger", and I was accused of cheating, because I "didn't have 1 floating after that play".
It would seem that the person I was playing against had taken "floating mana" to refer exclusively to mana that was left over after paying a mana cost.
Have I been doing it wrong all along? Has my talk about "floating mana" before I pay costs been a miscommunication all this time?

I'm asking this now because I recently came across this passage whilst reading the comp rules:

106.4a If a player passes priority (see rule 116) while there is mana in his or her mana pool, that player announces what mana is there. If
any mana remains in a player’s mana pool after he or she spends mana
to pay a cost, that player announces what mana is still there.

Does that mean that talking about my "floating mana" communicates that I'm passing priority?

A:

mana floating is a slang mtg term and refers to mana left over after you play a spell.

Refers to mana added to a player's mana pool and not used immediately.
  For example, a player might tap all of his or her lands for mana, then
  play Armageddon (destroying all land in play), then use the excess
  "floating" mana to play some other card.

http://mtg.wikia.com/wiki/Slang#Float
Talking about floating mana does not imply that you are about to pass priority. This is because you can play multiple spells before you pass priority and you would potentially have mana left in your pool between such plays. After casting each spell you need to make it clear how much and what type of mana you still have in your pool, so talking about how much and of what types of mana are still floating seems appropriate.
In a tournament, as long as your usage is clear and consistent there should be no problems. 

