Q:

Why did Wizards of the Coast change the minimum deck size for Constructed from 40 to 60 cards?

In the beginning, Magic: the Gathering decks had to have at least 40 cards. Later, the developers changed the deckbuilding rules in two ways:

The minimum deck size went from 40 cards to 60 cards in Constructed.
You could only have up to 4 copies of each card in your deck that wasn't a basic land.

I totally understand the decision to limit you to 4 copies of any one card; this needs no explanation. However, why did they change the minimum deck size? I can find conflicted references to when it happened, but I have yet to find why it happened. So: why did it happen? What motivated Wizards of the Coast to make the change?
I'm aware there's multiple possible gameplay or sales reasons or benefits. What I am most interested in is the serious reasons that actually motivated the change, and the serious reasons why this minimum remains the case to this day and has not yet been increased or decreased in over 20 years.
Good answers to this question will demonstrate that Wizards of the Coast was and is motivated by the issues that answer describes. This is to ensure this question can have an actual demonstrably objectively correct answer, and avoid it becoming and endless list of possible reasons and impacts. A good answer must clear this bar before it also engages in speculation, and should delineate what is speculation and what is certain.

A:

Mark Rosewater wrote a very interesting article a while back called, "20 things that were going to kill Magic the Gathering."
This is the first thing that was going to kill magic at the time.  Here's all he states in that article, but it's the best I can find to answer your question:

R&D realized that the rules were a problem, so they introduced two
  changes. First, the minimum for Constructed decks was changed from
  forty to sixty. It remained at forty for Limited formats. Second,
  every card but basic lands was limited to no more than four copies.
  Four was chosen because it allowed some consistency for deck building
  but wasn't too much to ensure that the card would always be drawn
  every game.

The second item that was going to kill magic, was the addition of the banned/restricted list.  The first line of that discussion reads:

The four-of card limits and the increase in deck size helped, but it
  didn't stop the degeneracy...

So, it's pretty clear, that 60 was introduced to limit the "degeneracy" of decks.  If you've ever tried to take your favorite 60 card deck, and squeeze it down to 40 cards, you realize that it's significantly faster at 40 than at 60.

