Q:

Interaction between Nivmagus Elemental and Rune Snag

Recently the following situation popped up in a casual game and it was a bit confusing. I was wondering if someone here could help out. 

Player T has 4 mana open and plays a 2 mana spell in his main phase
Player G has a Nivmagus Elemental out and plays a Rune Snag to counter T's 2 mana spell; Player G has no Rune Snags in his graveyard
T decides to pay the 2 mana required to not have his spell countered. 
At this point G exiles his rune snag using Nivmagus Elemental to obtain two +1/+1 counters

It seemed to me that this cannot happen, since either Rune Snag resolves and T pays two mana, or Nivmagus Elemental eats Rune Snag and T does not need to pay 2 mana since it never resolves.
Does player T need to pay two additional mana to play his spell even if Nivmagus Elemental eats it? 

A:

You are correct, Player T should not have had to pay 2 mana.
The decision of whether or not to pay 2 mana happens as part of Rune Snag resolving. Player G has 2 options:
1) Let Rune Snag resolve, in which case Player T needs to pay 2 mana (or have their spell countered), but Nivmagus Elemental won't do anything, as Rune Snag will no longer be a valid target for the ability.
2) Activate Nivmagus Elemental's ability while Rune Snag is on the stack, exiling Rune Snag. Player T will not have to pay 2 mana, because Rune Snag will never resolve.
Note that option 1 will happen by default if player G does not specify otherwise. Player G has the right to respond to their own spell:

116.3c If a player has priority when they cast a spell, activate an ability, or take a special action, that player receives priority afterward.

However, they must specifically state that they wish to retain priority:
(From the tournament rules):

Whenever a player adds an object to the stack, they are assumed to be passing priority unless they explicitly announce that they intend to retain it.

So if player G casts Rune Snag without saying anything, player T can simply say "ok" or "resolves" or "I'll pay the mana", and it will be too late for player G to use Ninmagus.
This rule matters especially for Ninmagus in general; the player will always need to declare that they wish to retain priority if they want to ensure that they can use it.

