Q:

How can I modify Green Tron to better combat Aggro Spirits?

I realise this post might be broad, but I’m struggling to find cards to beat an Aggro spirit deck. I’m playing green tron and my opponent has a spirit deck which with the flyers is taking me down too much by the time I get my tron lands down. 
Are there any modern cards that will help destroy a spirit deck aiming to get many Spirits down which boost each other? 
Or if Tron isn’t the right deck, what decks work well vs a spirit deck?
My deck is as follows 

Lands

Urza’s mine x4 
Urza’s Power Plant x4
Urza Tower x 4
Basic land Forest  x4

Artifacts

Expedition Map x4
Planar Bridge  x2
Treasure map x 1 
Oblivion Stone x 4 
Chromatic Star x4 
Mana Vault x1 

Planeswalker

Karn, scion of Urza x1

Sorceries

All is Dust x1 
Sylvan Scrying x 4 
Ancient Stirrings x4 

Instants

Natures Claim x3
Haze of Pollen x2 
Commencement of Festivities x2
Swell of growth x1 
Crop Rotation x1 

Creatures

Deceiver of form x2 
End Bringer x2 
Conduit of Ruin x2
It That Betrays x2 
Platinum Angel x2
Kozilek, the Great Distortion x1 
Emrakul, the Promised End x1
Emrakul, the Aeons Tornx1

Sideboard

Skittering Invasion x2
Wrapping Wail x2
Titan’s Presence x 4
Not of This World x2 
Loxodon warhammer x2 
Endbringer x1 
Conduit of Ruin x1
Artisan of Kozilek x1 

A:

Disclaimer: not an expert on Modern. The following comes from my understanding of other formats & my reading of Modern strategy articles.
As Hall-of-Famer Paulo Vitor Damo Da Rosa wrote, Tron is slightly favoured against spirits, especially pre-board. However, your build of Tron is subpar because your payoff cards are less than ideal. Cards like It That Betrays cost so much mana to cast, doesn't immediately impact the board, and even if you survive to attack with it, you might not win (opponent can sacrifice 2 lands and swing back for lethal). You're also running cards like Nature's Claim in the maindeck, which is completely dead against spirits (this is the reason why Nature's Claim is a sideboard card: it's dead against too many strategies; you only bring it in when it's good). As a result, a complete answer would be very big indeed since it'd involve a complete rebuilding of your deck. I'll refer you instead to these two primers on G/X Tron and Eldrazi Tron on MTG Salvation. Note they are different decks and play out differently - you should choose one and build that way, not try to be both.
For cards themselves I'll mention only these, because they're the most critical to the matchup when both decks are well-built.
Oblivion Stone: I see you're already running four, so you should know how good they are.
Wurmcoil Engine: gaining 6 life means they can't kill you, and it's too powerful for them to trade with. They basically need to have Path to Exile or lose.
Ugin, the Spirit Dragon: Ugin's second ability is a one-sided sweeper against Spirits.
Walking Ballista: this lets you snipe off all their X/1's easily and still maybe have a body left over. Remember it also instantly kills Phantasmal Image.
Edit: remembered that spirits runs Aether Vial, so maindeck Nature's Claim aren't dead. However, it's still not worth it. They will have hands which don't contain Vial, and it's not like you auto-win if they don't have Vial either. Nature's Claim is for fighting the likes of Stony Silence (which, if it resolves, almost paralyzes you) and Affinty; the sideboard is the place for these narrow hate cards, not the maindeck.

