Q:

Declare Dominance

I am new to playing Magic, and I'm trying to teach my 9 year old daughter and father what I know (which needs lots of clarifying). I've read several of the the questions posted on this forum and have learned a great deal. So, I'd like to post one of my own concerning the sorcery Declare Dominance. Here's the situation:
I attacked my opponent with Gravewaker (5/5) and destroyed their Sun Sentinel (2/2) during the combat phase. I then decided to cast the sorcery Declare Dominance during the second main phase and target my Gravewaker making it a (8/8). The directions on the Declare Dominance card state that all creatures able to block it this turn do so. I interpreted this to mean that all creatures my opponent had under their control, which were not tapped, were required to attack my Gravewaker (8/8). So, does this create a second combat phase? I assumed it did, and I made my opponent's Pyromantic Pilgrim (3/1) block my Gravewaker (8/8), which I in turn destroyed. Was this a correct use of the Declare Dominance sorcery?
Thanks.

A:

This was incorrect. Declare Dominance does not create a second attack phase. In order to do that, it would need to specifically state that it does, such as “there is an additional combat phase.”
The key words here are “able to do so”. In order to be able to block a creature, that creature must be attacking you. So if you are not attacking them with your Gravewalker, then they are not able to block it.
Declare Dominance would normally need of be cast before the part of a turn where blockers are declared in order to have that part of its ability work.
You can cast Declare Dominance after the combat phase, but it will have no impact other than giving a creature +3/+3, which on its own won’t help. 
Also, note that you can never attack a creature, so the idea of making your opponent's creatures attack your Gravewalker doesn’t make sense. Declare Dominance forces them to block
your Gravewalker. Blocking and attacking are 2 separate things. You attack your opponent with creatures, and then they choose which creatures to use to block your attacking creatures. 
To add more info based on comments... Declare Dominance’s ability does not create a one-shot effect; which is something that happens immediately and then is over. Rather, it creates 2 continuous effects that both last until the end of turn. A continuous effect is an ongoing thing that lasts for a particular duration.  One of them gives the target +3/+3; while the other makes it so that for the rest of the turn, any time a creature could block the target creature; it has to do so. It doesn’t cause any attacking or blocking immediately; it just changes the rules for assigning blockers for the rest of the turn. 

