Q:

Do i have to have a spell target to tap a wizard creature with Patron Wizard?

Patron Wizard says I have to tap an untapped wizard. That is before the ":", which means that is the cost. However, does there have to be a spell to target to use this ability, or can I just tap an untapped wizard and let the ability fizzle?

A:

You absolutely do have to have a target in order to use the ability.

602.2  To activate an ability is to put it onto the stack and pay its costs,
  so that it will even tually resolve and have its effect. Only an
  object’s controller (or its owner, if it doesn’t have a controller)
  can activate its activated ability unless the object specifically says
  otherwise. Activating an ability follows the steps listed below, in
  order. If, at any point during the activation of an ability, a player
  is unable to comply with any of those steps, the activation is
  illegal; the game returns to the moment before that ability started to
  be activated (see rule 717, “Handling Illegal Actions”). Announcements
  and payments can’t be altered after they’ve been made.

And you have to choose a target in order to cast a spell or activate an ability.

601.2c The player announces his or her choice of an appropriate player, object, or zone for each target the spell requires. A spell
  may require some targets only if an alternative or additional cost
  (such as a buyback or kicker cost), or a particular mode, was chosen
  for it; otherwise, the spell is cast as though it did not require
  those targets. If the spell has a variable number of targets, the
  player announces how many targets he or she will choose before he or
  she announces those targets. The same target can’t be chosen multiple
  times for any one instance of the word “target” on the spell. However,
  if the spell uses the word “target” in multiple places, the same
  object, player, or zone can be chosen once for each instance of the
  word “target” (as long as it fits the targeting criteria). If any
  effects say that an object or player must be chosen as a target, the
  player chooses targets so that he or she obeys the maximum possible
  number of such effects without violating any rules or effects that say
  that an object or player can’t be chosen as a target. The chosen
  players, objects, and/or zones each become a target of that spell.
  (Any abilities that trigger when those players, objects, and/or zones
  become the target of a spell trigger at this point; they’ll wait to be
  put on the stack until the spell has finished being cast.)

602.2b The remainder of the process for activating an ability is identical to the process for casting a spell listed in rules 601.2b –
  h. Those rules apply to activating an a bility just as they apply to
  casting a spell. An activated ability’s analog to a spell’s mana cost
  (as referenced in rule 601.2e) is its activation cost.

