Q:

Why people have to play every card and do the longest combo before closing?

So usually when I get to low HP and have no cards to fight, I pass the turn so that the opponent can finish me off. But 99% of the times they have to play every card they can and just waste time with animation. So why? 
I just want to end and go on the next game. Why can't they have the satisfaction of delivering the final blow and finish it. At that point I just waste their time in return by waiting up my timer, especially if they pass without killing me.

A:

There are multiple reasons that a player may be doing this.

Players have been building up to a certain game state; and they want to see their deck actually do what it was built to do. I know in casual/friendly games, my friends and I have been known to do crazy things like attack for 100 damage on the last turn; even though it was overkill for just winning the game. It can be fun to see your deck do crazy things.
MTG Arena features quests, which reward you with Gold for completing certain challenges, such as "attack with 45 creatures". An opponent may be trying to achieve one of these; which could require doing more than the minimum to just win a game.
They may be just being extra cautious to ensure a win. You might think they can simply attack with their creatures against you not having blockers and win the game, but they don't know whether or not you're holding a Fog in hand or not. You can help prevent this issue by completely tapping out before your turn is over. Though depending on the types of decks being played; they may still not be able to know for sure that they can win right now.
It could be that some players are just exhibiting bad sportsmanship, as you assume. They aren't thinking about how it feels to the player that is losing. They think winning isn't enough; they want to completely crush you.

The best solution to this is simply to resign when you know you've lost. Instead of passing your turn, forfeit the match. This saves them time as well.
The worst "solution" is to try and retaliate by wasting their time. That makes you the "bad guy" in this situation; it would be completely reasonable of them to complain about someone they played with that purposefully slow-played them to waste their time when they knew the game was over. Acting this way will simply make for a bad experience for everyone.

