Q:

Are cards that interact with sacrificing rare, and why?

For independent reasons, I was looking recently for cards that interact with Sacrificing. At the time (owing mostly to my lack of knowledge in MtG templating), I found none. Looking at the Avacyn restored preview card Sigarda, Host of Herons brought back the question, which was further piqued when I noticed that another preview cards is intended to "mess with" sacrificing (Angel of Jubilation).
Looking through Gatherer (with the above caveat), I found only a few cards cards (Sigarda's predecessor Tajuru Preserver, Dragon Appeasement, Furnace Celebration, Savra, Queen of the Golgari, Mortician Beetle, Thraximundar) with sacrifice trigger effects. I found no card with trigger effects when they are sacrificed to other cards (something which, coming fro a YGO background, I am used to).
Was my research too incomplete or are there really just few cards that interact with Sacrificing other than as a cost or effect?
If there are so few, do you see any design-related reason for it? I mean, given the prevalence of effects triggering by entering the battlefield, drawing cards, creatures dying, attacking, blocking/being blocked etc., it seems strange that such a prevalent game action as sacrificing would have been ignored.

A:

You said:

I found no card with trigger effects when they are sacrificed to other cards

In a design article, Mark Rosewater said: 

Originally, Perilous Myr dealt 1 damage when it was put into the
  graveyard from play but 3 damage if it was sacrificed. And it wasn't
  the only artifact creature with this rider. As I explained in parts 1
  and 2, black and red had a sacrifice theme that was a little stronger
  in the design handoff. The biggest problem with the rider was the
  phrase "When CARDNAME is sacrificed" led many players to believe that
  they were allowed to sacrifice it whenever they wanted. The
  development team decided that having a death trigger was cleaner and
  still would be slightly better in a deck capable of sacrificing its
  artifacts.

So Mark Rosewater considers sacrifice triggers of that kind bad design. Not that it couldn't work, just that the benefit of putting them into a set is not worth the complexity. Triggering when a card goes to the graveyard is just close enough in most cases that the sacrifice effect is not worth the potential confusion.

