Q:

How to describe the strengths and weaknesses of white to a new mtg player?

When I'm teaching Magic: The Gathering to a new player, one of the things I usually give them early on is a run down of each of the different colors and its pros and cons. I usually try to come up with 2 sentences and no more than 3 example cards to describe the color. Normally, I use descriptions that are something like this:

Red: Uses the power of fire to damage life totals, creatures, and
destroy lands/artifacts. Has trouble dealing with enchantments,
flying, and tricky spells. Examples: Shock, Shatter, Demolish.
Black: Uses the power of death and evil to profit from other misery
with powerful removal, creatures, discard spells, and detrimental
enchantments. Has trouble dealing with enchantments, vulnerable to
removal, and has slightly weaker creatures. Examples: Doom Blade, Mind Rot, Sorin's Thirst
Blue: Uses the power of the mind to manipulate the field of battle by
drawing cards, countering spells, messing with opponents' plans in
general, and playing flying creatures. Has the weakest creatures in
the game, even though it has many of the best flying creatures.
Examples: Divination, Cancel, Darkslick Drake (or any other good
flying creature)
Green: Uses the power of nature to grow and expand until its massive
creatures are too much for opponents to handle. Good at dealing with
artifacts/enchantments, and has strongest creatures in the game, but
also has worst flying creatures and very little removal. Examples:
Llanowar Elves, Leatherback Baloth, Naturalize
White: Uses the power of life and justice to play powerful creatures,
life-gain spells, sweeper spells, small creatures, and good defenses.
Second best in flying and creatures overall, but weak against ??????
Examples: ?????

While these are rough examples that could all use a bit of polishing, I definitely feel like my understanding and explanation of white looks the weakest. Currently, I look at white as the 'all-around color' with fewer strengths and weaknesses than the others, but I'm having trouble characterizing it in more specific ways.
How would you explain the pros and cons of the color white to newcomers to MTG? What example cards and general characteristics of white decks would you include? What might you add to my other explanations to make them more helpful and accurate, but still keep them clean and concise?

A:

You might not be aware but Wizards already has a page describing to a new player what the core concepts of each colour of magic are. Here's what they have to say, even more concisely than how you explain the colours:
##White: The color of Justice
White spellcasters use superior tactics, efficient creatures, and the power of righteousness against their foes.
##Blue: The color of Wisdom
Blue mages focus on using superior knowledge to gain control of a battle, and slowly gain the upper hand.
##Black: The color of Ambition
Black sorcerers are willing to do whatever it takes to win a battle, even if it means sacrificing everything to do so.
##Red: The color of Chaos
Red conjurers try to win as quickly and dramatically as possible, smashing and burning their way to a quick victory.
##Green: The color of Nature
Green shamans win duels through the brute force of mother nature, summoning giant creatures to squash their enemies.
I think some of your explanations need a bit of work. For example, black isn't (always) explicitly evil, just selfish and ambitious; and red isn't just "the power of fire" (although the element of fire is associated with it) just like blue isn't "the power of water".

White: Uses the power justice to play efficient creatures and deal with combat threats. Best at manipulating enchantments, artifact equipment, and life gain, and second best in flying. Worst at direct damage: white relies on superior tactics in combat to deal the lethal blow. Examples: Elite Vanguard, Pacifism, Lifelink.

